---
title: I Am Frog
excerpt: This is a silly one. 10 minute prompt on writing a poem about frogs (Stuart's doing). Not quite a poem, not quite a story.
publishDate: 'Apr 6 2020'
tags:
  - creative writing
  - poetry
seo:
  image:
    src: '/post-1_devil-all-the-time.jpg'
    alt:  Car driving through Oak Mountain State Park in Pelham, Alabama
---
<div style="background-color: #27272a; padding: 20px; border-radius: 5px;">
  <span style="color: #f2f2f2; font-size: 16px; font-family: 'Monaco', 'Consolas', 'Lucida Console', monospace;">PROMPT: Write a poem about frogs. (10 + 5 mins editing)</span>
</div>

This is a silly one. 10 minute prompt on writing a poem about frogs (Stuart's doing). Not quite a poem, not quite a story.

<hr align = "left" width="50%">
<em> Ribbit ribbit. </em>
<br>
What joy it is to be a frog!<br>
All wibbly nibbly and wet splashy lily paddling around my Pond.<br>
My bowed legs are strong and sturdy, but rubber they may seem to a Yellow Man from the East.<br>
Mother Wind sends a breeze through the summer air and the birds, they are a singing.<br>
I leap to and fro, with not a care in the world.

Pink flowers adorn my castle.<br>
These buoyant leaves of beauty and grace are my home, or at least my nestling spot for the afternoon. <br>
I lay my head down on its veiny vibrancy, reminding myself that the Yellow Light in the sky is what feeds them and makes them grow.<br>
A snap of my tongue as the scent of a nearby fly makes me salivate. Swallow the fly. <br>
They’re salty and crunchy, strong in smell. Flies usually get into too much trouble, dirty creatures that they be!

I am Frog, the cleanest of them all! <br>
I live in the water and my wet, slippery membrane protects me from the woes and follies of the everyday foe. <br>
<em> Splish splash! </em> <br>
A little trail of water beads that lay the land of my grandiose path. <br>
My webbed toes and webbed hands pitter-patter with a consistent rhythm, nature's gentle percussion.

My belly is round, pregnant, ripe like a melon. My skin, soft and supple. <br>
Bullied in school for my wideset eyes and flaring nostrils, but my self-esteem blooms in adulthood as my throat widens. <br>
I sing like a fiend, deep and guttural. <br>
The princesses swoon and they wait for a kiss. <br>
I feel myself melt in their soft sweet palms.
