---
title: 90 days in
excerpt: New company, new me
publishDate: 'May 26 2025'
tags:
  - marketing
seo:
  image:
    src: '/post-1_devil-all-the-time.jpg'
    alt:  Car driving through Oak Mountain State Park in Pelham, Alabama
---
I started a new role! I joined Moloco as part of the EMEA marketing team in early March.

After my last role, I took a long pause. I wanted to find something I could truly stand behind and be proud of - a place that aligned with my values and where I could see myself for the long haul. I did a lot of self-reflection (and yoga! 🧘🏻‍♀️) and waited for the right fit.

This move feels like the perfect culmination of so many seemingly different chapters of my career - starting in retail, managing performance marketing and app acquisition, my storied stint in iGaming, and most recently, pivoting to B2B and AI. And looking at Moloco’s varied product portfolio and customer base, it all fits together in a way that feels almost serendipitous.

Moloco (not Moloko - sorry, 90s club kids) is an ai adtech company with some of the most advanced operation ML for ad serving on the planet. 

Although you likely haven't heard of us, we reach 2B daily active users (DAUs) and achieve immense scale in mobile advertising - for reference, that's more than Instagram and TikTok combined; and we have the largest reach of any app advertising platform.

Moloco is tackling some of the biggest challenges in advertising - helping marketers break free from walled gardens, fight ad fraud, and navigate a notoriously tricky ecosystem with better performance, transparency, and control. As someone who has always championed a more open and accessible internet, I feel proud to be part of this movement. 🚀

We're a small but mighty bunch of <20 people in marketing. The team is guided by strong leadership and things are changing and evolving every week. I am learning so much. The pace is relentless, but if anyone knows me, this is the sort of energy I enjoy, so it is a great fit. It’s the kind of environment I hoped to find when I wrote about my <a href='/work-ethos'>work ethos</a>. Interestingly, during the nearly 60 onboarding conversations (lol yes this happened, and tbh I loved it) I had in my first month, one sentiment that came up again and again is: "I've been here for 'n' years but it feels like 'n+3' years." Time flies when you're doing cool stuff.

That being said, I really like my coworkers and my team - they're super smart, kind, and a fun hardworking bunch. I know I joined a special company that cares about their employees when they brought 700 of us to Maui for a work retreat (which was a dream!).

I've joined at what I feel is an important inflection point. The company has scaled immensely - nearly 25x to a $2bn+ valuation in just 5 years, and grew headcount 10x in the same time. Another fun stat: I've joined less than 3 months ago but I'm already more tenured than 8% of the workforce - it's truly a level of hypergrowth that I've never witnessed firsthand.

But now we’re in those tricky “middle years” - no longer the scrappy startup, not yet the fully mature giant. The training wheels are off, the expectations are higher, and the pressure is real. This next chapter is about continuing to build with intention, staying ambitious, and proving we can keep growing on purpose.

It’s an exciting time of growth - not just for Moloco, but for me as well. I'm really glad to be here. I’m hoping it’s somewhere I can grow, stick around, and keep figuring things out. There’s a lot to do, and I feel fortunate to be working alongside some very bright people who truly care about what we’re building, and I'm looking forward to just getting stuck in.